Volumes vs Bind Mounts

Volumes:
1. Data volumes provide – the ability to persist data in 
an organized way outside of the container independent of 
the container’s lifecycle.
2. Easy backups and recoveries
3. /var/lib/docker -- volumes are stored in this location
4. Docker can create a volume during the creation of containers 
   and services when we run the docker volume create command.
5. There are APIs and CLIs for interacting with Docker volumes


Bind Mounts:
1. Maps a host file or directory stored anywhere on the 
container host filesystem, to a container file or a directory
2. Backup and recoveries is bit of complex. We don't have to worry about it if we know what folders to backup
3. It can reside anywhere on a host computer
4. We can create bind mount before starting the container and make sure that file systems
    are mounted in the correct order when using the bind option of the mount command.
   Or we can start a container with a bind mount
5. Through command line we cannot access bind mounts. The host machine still allows us to work with them instantly


Networks are natural ways to isolate containers from other containers or other networks.

 	sudo docker network ls
  121  sudo docker images
  124  sudo docker ps
  125  sudo docker network inspect bridge
  126  sudo docker ps
  127  clear
  128  sudo docker network inspect bridge
  129  sudo docker network disconnect bridge networktest
  130  sudo docker network inspect bridge
  131  sudo docker network ls


Creating our own bridge network
sudo docker network create -d bridge my_bridge

Specifying the network my_bridge to a container named as myubuntu
sudo docker run -d --net=my_bridge --name myubuntu ubuntu

To check whether container created above is attached to my_bridge network run
below command
sudo docker inspect my_bridge

Docker volume size
sudo docket system df -v

docker tag local-image:tagname new-repo:tagname
docker push new-repo:tagname
If you get access denied then use below then run docker push command again
sudo docker login
Username:
Password: